at the end of every
at the end of every in years you shall
in years you shall
in years you shall of deaths and this is the form of the
of deaths and this is the form of the
of deaths and this is the form of the release every creditor who has lent
release every creditor who has lent
release every creditor who has lent anything to his neighbor shall release
anything to his neighbor shall release
anything to his neighbor shall release it he shall not require it of his
it he shall not require it of his
it he shall not require it of his neighbor or his brother because it is
neighbor or his brother because it is
neighbor or his brother because it is called the Lord's release of a foreigner
called the Lord's release of a foreigner
called the Lord's release of a foreigner you may require it but you shall give up
you may require it but you shall give up
you may require it but you shall give up your claim to what is owed by your
your claim to what is owed by your
your claim to what is owed by your brother except when there may be no poor
brother except when there may be no poor
brother except when there may be no poor among you for the Lord will greatly
among you for the Lord will greatly
among you for the Lord will greatly bless you in the land which the Lord
bless you in the land which the Lord
bless you in the land which the Lord your God is giving you to possess as an
your God is giving you to possess as an
your God is giving you to possess as an inheritance only if you carefully obey
inheritance only if you carefully obey
inheritance only if you carefully obey the voice of the Lord your God to
the voice of the Lord your God to
the voice of the Lord your God to observe with care all these commandments
observe with care all these commandments
observe with care all these commandments which I command you today for the Lord
which I command you today for the Lord
which I command you today for the Lord your God will bless you just as he
your God will bless you just as he
your God will bless you just as he promised you you shall lend to many
promised you you shall lend to many
promised you you shall lend to many nations but you shall not borrow
nations but you shall not borrow
nations but you shall not borrow you shall reign over many nations but
you shall reign over many nations but
you shall reign over many nations but they shall not reign over you if there
they shall not reign over you if there
they shall not reign over you if there is among you a poor man of your brethren
is among you a poor man of your brethren
is among you a poor man of your brethren within any of the gates in your land
within any of the gates in your land
within any of the gates in your land which the Lord your God is giving you
which the Lord your God is giving you
which the Lord your God is giving you you shall not harden your heart nor shut
you shall not harden your heart nor shut
you shall not harden your heart nor shut your hand from your poor brother but you
your hand from your poor brother but you
your hand from your poor brother but you shall open your hand wide to him and
shall open your hand wide to him and
shall open your hand wide to him and willingly lend him sufficient for his
willingly lend him sufficient for his
willingly lend him sufficient for his need whatever he needs
need whatever he needs
need whatever he needs beware lest there be a wicked thought in
beware lest there be a wicked thought in
beware lest there be a wicked thought in your heart saying the seventh year the
your heart saying the seventh year the
your heart saying the seventh year the year of release is at hand and your eye
year of release is at hand and your eye
year of release is at hand and your eye be evil against your poor brother and
be evil against your poor brother and
be evil against your poor brother and you give him nothing and he cry out the
you give him nothing and he cry out the
you give him nothing and he cry out the Lord against you and it become sin among
Lord against you and it become sin among
Lord against you and it become sin among you you shall surely give to him and
you you shall surely give to him and
you you shall surely give to him and your heart should not be grieved when
your heart should not be grieved when
your heart should not be grieved when you give to him because for this thing
you give to him because for this thing
you give to him because for this thing the Lord your God will bless you in all
the Lord your God will bless you in all
the Lord your God will bless you in all your works
your works
your works in all through which you put your hand
in all through which you put your hand
in all through which you put your hand for the poor will never cease from the
for the poor will never cease from the
for the poor will never cease from the land therefore I command you saying you
land therefore I command you saying you
land therefore I command you saying you shall open your hand wide to your
shall open your hand wide to your
shall open your hand wide to your brother - you're poor and you're needy
brother - you're poor and you're needy
brother - you're poor and you're needy in your land if your brother a Hebrew
in your land if your brother a Hebrew
in your land if your brother a Hebrew man or a Hebrew woman is so teen and
man or a Hebrew woman is so teen and
man or a Hebrew woman is so teen and serves you six years then in the seventh
serves you six years then in the seventh
serves you six years then in the seventh year you shall let him go free from you
year you shall let him go free from you
year you shall let him go free from you and when you send him away free from you
and when you send him away free from you
and when you send him away free from you you shall not let him go away
you shall not let him go away
you shall not let him go away empty-handed you shall supply him
empty-handed you shall supply him
empty-handed you shall supply him liberally from your flock from your
liberally from your flock from your
liberally from your flock from your threshing floor and from your winepress
from what the Lord your God has blessed
from what the Lord your God has blessed you with you shall give to him you shall
you with you shall give to him you shall
you with you shall give to him you shall remember
remember
remember that you were a slave in the land of
that you were a slave in the land of
that you were a slave in the land of Egypt and the Lord your God redeemed you
therefore I command you this thing today
therefore I command you this thing today and if it happens that he says to you I
and if it happens that he says to you I
and if it happens that he says to you I will not go away from you because he
will not go away from you because he
will not go away from you because he loves you and your house since he
loves you and your house since he
loves you and your house since he prosper us with you then you shall take
prosper us with you then you shall take
prosper us with you then you shall take in all and thrust it through his ear
in all and thrust it through his ear
in all and thrust it through his ear through the door and he shall be your
through the door and he shall be your
through the door and he shall be your servant forever also to your female
servant forever also to your female
servant forever also to your female servant you shall do likewise it shall
servant you shall do likewise it shall
servant you shall do likewise it shall not seem hard to you when you send him
not seem hard to you when you send him
not seem hard to you when you send him away free from you for he has been worth
away free from you for he has been worth
away free from you for he has been worth a double hired servant in serving you
a double hired servant in serving you
a double hired servant in serving you six years then the Lord your God will
six years then the Lord your God will
six years then the Lord your God will bless you in all that you do all the
bless you in all that you do all the
bless you in all that you do all the firstborn males that come from your herd
firstborn males that come from your herd
firstborn males that come from your herd and your flock you shall sanctify to the
and your flock you shall sanctify to the
and your flock you shall sanctify to the Lord your God you shall do no work with
Lord your God you shall do no work with
Lord your God you shall do no work with the firstborn of your herd nor shear the
the firstborn of your herd nor shear the
the firstborn of your herd nor shear the firstborn of your flock you and your
firstborn of your flock you and your
firstborn of your flock you and your household shall eat it before the Lord
household shall eat it before the Lord
household shall eat it before the Lord your God here my year in the place which
your God here my year in the place which
your God here my year in the place which the Lord chooses but if there is a
the Lord chooses but if there is a
the Lord chooses but if there is a defect in it
defect in it
defect in it if it is lame or blind or has any
if it is lame or blind or has any
if it is lame or blind or has any serious defect
serious defect
serious defect you shall not sacrifice it to the Lord
you shall not sacrifice it to the Lord
you shall not sacrifice it to the Lord your God you may eat it within your
your God you may eat it within your
your God you may eat it within your gates the unclean and the clean person
gates the unclean and the clean person
gates the unclean and the clean person alike may eat it as if it were a gazelle
alike may eat it as if it were a gazelle
alike may eat it as if it were a gazelle or a deer only you shall not eat its
or a deer only you shall not eat its
or a deer only you shall not eat its blood you shall pour it on the ground
blood you shall pour it on the ground
blood you shall pour it on the ground like water